A brief history of video games part 2
Robert Dyer

It’s hard to believe that video games have been around for as long as they have. The first commercial arcade game, Computer Space, was released all the way back in 1971. Since then, the video game industry has exploded into a multi-billion dollar behemoth. With such a long and storied history, there are bound to be some interesting stories and facts about video games that you may not know. In this article, we will explore the history of video games and some of the most interesting facts about them. From the first computer game ever created to the highest-grossing game of all time, read on to learn more about the history of video games.
The early days of video games

Video games have been around for a long time, with the first commercial game being released in 1971. However, it was not until the late 1970s and early 1980s that video games began to gain popularity. The early days of video games were marked by a few key features: simple graphics, basic gameplay, and limited interactivity.

One of the earliest and most popular video games was Pong, which was released in 1972. Pong was a simple tennis game where players used paddles to hit a ball back and forth. While Pong was not the first video game, it was one of the most influential games of its time. Pong helped to popularize video gaming and laid the foundation for many of the genres that we enjoy today.

Another early classic video game is Space Invaders, which was released in 1978. Space Invaders was an arcade game where players had to defend their base from waves of aliens. Space Invaders was one of the first games to use scrolling graphics, and it also introduced the concept of shooting at enemies on screen.

Video gaming in the early days was limited by technology. Early consoles could only display basic graphics, so most games were based on simple concepts with little room for innovation. As technology improved, however, video games began to become more complex and interactive. The early days of video gaming laid the groundwork for the booming industry we see today.
The first computer game ever created

The first computer game ever created was called "Tennis for Two". It was created by William Higinbotham in 1958. The game was designed to be played on an oscilloscope, which was a new technology at the time. "Tennis for Two" was very simple, but it was a lot of fun to play.

The rise of console gaming

The console gaming industry began in the early 1970s with the release of the first commercially available video game console, the Magnavox Odyssey. The Odyssey was not a particularly successful console, but it paved the way for later consoles like the Atari 2600 and Intellivision.

The Atari 2600 was released in 1977 and quickly became the most popular video game console on the market. It featured a number of classic games like "Space Invaders" and "Pac-Man." The success of the Atari 2600 led to a boom in the console gaming industry in the early 1980s.

A number of other companies released consoles during this time period, including Mattel, Coleco, and Nintendo. Nintendo's first console, the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), was released in 1985 and quickly become one of the most popular consoles ever made. It featured classic games like "Super Mario Bros." and "Legend of Zelda."


The NES helped to revitalize the flagging video game industry after the video game crash of 1983. The crash had been caused by a number of factors, including oversaturation of the market with poor quality games. The NES helped to bring back consumer confidence in video games with its high-quality games and strong third-party support.

The NES was followed by a number of other successful consoles from Nintendo, including the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) and the Nintendo 64 (N64). Other companies also had success during this time period with their own consoles, including Sega with the Sega Genesis/Mega Drive and Sony with the PlayStation.

The console gaming industry continued to grow throughout the late 1990s and early 2000s. Microsoft entered the market in 2001 with its Xbox console, and Nintendo released its GameCube console in 2002. In 2006, Nintendo released its Wii console, which featured innovative motion controls that helped to make video games more accessible to a wider audience.

The console gaming industry has continued to grow in recent years with the release of new consoles from all of the major manufacturers. The current generation of consoles includes the PlayStation 5 from Sony, the Xbox Series X|S from Microsoft, and the Switch from Nintendo.
The highest-grossing game of all time

In 1975, a little game called Pong was released. It was an instant hit, and people all over the world were hooked on this new form of entertainment. Pong quickly became the highest-grossing game of all time, and its success paved the way for the video game industry as we know it today.

Since then, there have been many other games that have taken the title of highest-grossing game of all time. Some of these include Pac-Man, Tetris, Super Mario Bros., and Wii Sports. Each of these games has brought something unique to the table, and they have all been immensely popular with gamers worldwide.

As of writing, Minecraft takes the top spot of highest-selling game of all time with sales of 238,000,000 copies.

As the video game industry continues to grow, it is likely that we will see even more games that break records and become the highest-grossing games of all time. Who knows what the future holds for video games? We can’t wait to find out!
The birth of mobile gaming

The industry of mobile gaming has been around for quite some time. The first real mobile game console was the Atari Lynx, released in 1989. However, it was not until the release of the Nintendo Game Boy in 1992 that mobile gaming really took off. Since then, there have been numerous handheld consoles released, each with its own library of games.

The birth of smartphone gaming can be traced back to 2007, with the release of Apple's iPhone. While there were a few games available for the iPhone at launch, it wasn't until the App Store launched in 2008 that mobile gaming really started to take off. There are now thousands of games available for iOS devices, and Android devices are not far behind.

With the release of powerful and affordable smartphones and tablets, mobile gaming has become more popular than ever before. It is estimated that there are now more than two billion active gamers around the world, and a large portion of them are playing on mobile devices.
The future of video games

The future of video games is looking very bright. The industry is continuing to grow at a rapid pace and there are many new and exciting developments on the horizon.

Virtual reality is one of the most promising areas for future growth. VR technology has come a long way in recent years and it is now starting to become more widely available. There are already some great VR games on the market, and it is only going to get better in the coming years.

Augmented reality is another area that shows a lot of promise for the future of gaming. This technology allows you to overlay digital information onto the real world, and it has a lot of potential applications in gaming. Pokémon Go was one of the first popular examples of this technology, and there are sure to be many more in the future.

The rise of mobile gaming is another trend that shows no signs of slowing down. More and more people are playing games on their smartphones and tablets, and there are some great titles available. It is also becoming increasingly easy to develop games for these platforms, so we can expect to see even more great mobile games in the future.

In conclusion, the future of video games looks very bright indeed. There are many exciting new developments on the horizon that will continue to grow the industry and provide gamers with even more amazing experiences.

Conclusion

It's amazing to think about how far video games have come in such a short amount of time. What started as simple, pixelated games which has now evolved into immersive, realistic experiences that can transport us to other worlds. As technology continues to evolve, who knows what the future of video games will hold? We can't wait to find out.

If this article made your day, imagine what a coffee could do for us!
Support That's Pop Culture with a caffeine boost... because great reads deserve great brews!